Ajji was on an outing with her daughter and daughter-in-law, Sumati and
Subhadra. One lived in Bangalore and the other in Mumbai. They were
returning the next day as they had used up all the leaves their offices had
given. The children would remain at Shiggaon though, with their
grandparents. Everyone was looking forward to this stage of the holidays. The
children because there would be no parents telling them what to do, to Ajji’s
delicious food and to fun outings with Ajja. The grandparents, too, were
looking forward to having the children to themselves. The rest of the year it
was only the two of them in the house.
As Ajji walked with the two younger women, they talked about how
difficult it was for them to manage their office work and the children. Ajji
listened silently. Then Sumati said,
‘But they are so good when they are with
you, Amma. How do you manage them so well?’ Subhadra nodded.
‘I have
read so many books and articles to find out about this, but nothing works the
way it is written in books.
’
Now Ajji said,
‘Do not always go by what you read in books. Learn to use
your life’s experiences, read between the lines.
’ Then she grinned and said,
‘Otherwise you will become like the people in the story about the donkey and
the stick!’
Sumati and Subhadra forgot they were at the temple and clamoured
together,
‘What is this story? Tell us!’ Ajji shook her head.
‘Now you are
behaving like children. But you are my children after all. All right, come join
us at night when I tell today’s story.
’
That night the two mothers were the first to appear to listen to the stories.
The children were surprised to see their mums, and Ajji started her story.
Aruna Marg was a busy road. It connected a number of villages to each other
and many people, animals and carts used it every day. Walking along that
road, a group of students discovered a rock which no one had bothered to look
at in many years.
‘Look!’ they told each other in excitement,
‘there is
something written on the rock. What can it mean?’
They called out to their teacher. When they examined the rock carefully,
they found the markings were actually little drawings. One showed a stick,
and the other a donkey.
